---
categories: non-fiction blog
layout: blog
tags: Jekyll RatNotebook
title: Blog Page
description: Creating a blog page
order: [ 3, 1, 4 ]
comment-demon: BOOOOORING
comment-goose: what is this??
comment-willis: What a waste to read. Shows no information at all
---

**A whole new page!**

As always, this took a day's effort to create. The results look pretty simple, and should have been faster, but that's the coding life I suppose. Was a little annoying/fun to learn Jekyll's capability and limitations. 

**Steps**

First problem was creating a new subcategory for the blog. Simple stuff, literally just add a category in the front matter to have both non-fiction and blog. Then I wanted the feed to not list the blog posts (cause I don't want to spam the feed), so added an unless post.categories includes "blog". 

    unless post.categories contains "blog"

Second: creating a page that lists the blogs. I wanted something that looked like a timeline. The result is somewhat okay, a little simple. If I wasn't a lazy fuck, I'd add images here to show it off. Anyways, my design fingers were a little rusty and this took a lot of time to create. Also this is the first bit of coding purely on a laptop. No mouse or ultrawide monitor. A lot of tabbing back and forth but wasn't too bad. 

**Limitations**

I wish I could easily add a next and previous button between blog posts. Unfortunately I can't filter this to only be blog posts and not include all the other posts on this website. There are ways, there are plugins, but idk. I like the idea of keeping this site pure from plugins. Maybe I'll look into it more later.

**More to come?**

* Add an actual link in the non-fiction page to send to the blog list page.
* Fix the header so blog has it the colour blue.
* Figure out a way to add images easier or something.
* Add colours and hover to the blog list page
* Filter tags in the blog list page. This will take some javascript effort that I'm "excited" to do.

All in all, happy with the hustle.